if account id is visible and has acces to all resources account,security credentials ,billing is root user
as per standards we should not use much root useer
Root User has the permissions to 
for 
**IAM creating user groups and roles
**billing 
**resources
steps to create user
* IAM
*user
*create user 
( name it (The user name can have up to 64 characters. Valid characters: A-Z, a-z, 0-9, and + = , . @ _ - (hyphen))
add user
next
user gets created 
once the user gets created ARN generates iam id with username given
****to login as user u hve created***
security crenditial
enable console acces 
either u can go for custom password or auto generated password 
when i log in as iam user i will gwt switch role option
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Sid": "AlowS3access",
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Action": "s3:*",
			"Resource": "*"
		}
	]
}
first polcy created
json element reference to knw more abt json policy structure
test_user never give space 


Here are some practical use cases for IAM users in AWS, along with examples:

1. Access Management for Team Members
Use Case: Providing individual access to team members for specific AWS services.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a developer named "Alice."
Alice is given permissions to access the EC2 service for starting and stopping instances but is restricted from modifying security groups.
2. Fine-Grained Permissions
Use Case: Restricting access to specific resources for compliance and security.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a data analyst.
The user is given a policy allowing them to access only a specific S3 bucket (example-bucket/data-analytics/) for reading files.
3. Programmatic Access
Use Case: Allowing a service or script to interact with AWS resources programmatically.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a custom application.
Programmatic access keys are generated for the user.
The user is restricted to specific API actions (e.g., DynamoDB:Query and DynamoDB:PutItem).
4. Temporary Developers or Contractors
Use Case: Assigning short-term access to contractors or interns.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a contractor.
Access is limited to a specific service (e.g., CodePipeline) and revoked once the project is completed.
5. Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
Use Case: Enforcing enhanced security for sensitive operations.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a finance team member responsible for billing.
The user is required to use MFA for any changes to billing settings.
6. Monitoring and Troubleshooting
Use Case: Assigning read-only permissions for auditing and monitoring.
Example:
An IAM user is created for an auditor.
The ReadOnlyAccess policy is attached, allowing the user to view configurations and logs without making changes.
7. Backup Management
Use Case: Managing backups securely using limited permissions.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a backup script.
The script uses the user’s programmatic access keys to:
Copy data to an S3 bucket.
Perform lifecycle management (e.g., archival or deletion).
8. Onboarding New Employees
Use Case: Assigning personalized access during onboarding.
Example:
Each new employee gets an IAM user.
Permissions are customized based on their role (e.g., developer, admin, tester).
9. Scheduled Task Automation
Use Case: Running automated tasks in a secure manner.
Example:
An IAM user is created for a nightly Lambda function.
The user is granted permissions to interact with specific services, like RDS and CloudWatch.
10. Cross-Account Access Without Roles
Use Case: Accessing specific resources in another AWS account when roles aren’t possible.
Example:
An IAM user is created with restricted permissions.
The user’s credentials are shared for accessing another account’s S3 bucket or DynamoDB table.

1. Provide Console Access (Optional)
What it Means: This option allows the user to log in to the AWS Management Console using a username and password.

When to Choose This:

You are creating the user for a person (e.g., a developer, admin, or tester) who needs to:
Access AWS services using the web interface.
Perform manual tasks in AWS (e.g., launching EC2 instances, configuring S3 buckets).
Example: A developer needs to access the AWS Management Console to create Lambda functions. Enable this option and set a password for the user.

2. Programmatic Access (Optional)
What it Means: This option creates Access Keys (Access Key ID and Secret Access Key) for programmatic interactions with AWS services via:

AWS CLI
AWS SDKs
APIs
When to Choose This:

The user is an application, script, or automation tool that needs to:
Access AWS services.
Run tasks automatically (e.g., deploying infrastructure using Terraform).
The user is a person who needs programmatic access for tools like AWS CLI.
Example: You are creating an IAM user for a CI/CD pipeline script to deploy applications to EC2 instances. Enable this option to generate access keys.

When to Skip These Options
Skip Console Access:

If the user doesn’t need to log in to the AWS web interface.
Example: An IAM user for an automation script only needs programmatic access.
Skip Programmatic Access:

If the user will only perform tasks manually via the AWS Management Console.
Example: A tester logs in to check CloudWatch logs but doesn’t use automation tools.
Best Practices
Use IAM Identity Center (AWS SSO) instead of manual IAM users for console access if you manage multiple users or accounts.
Avoid enabling both options unless the user explicitly needs both.
